Social Engineering - The art of tricking the victims in giving away their personal informaation.

Common Techniques :-
1] Phishing Emails.
2] Fake Tech Support Calls.
3] Baiting.
4] Impersonation.
5] Tailgating.

Types of Social Engineering :
1] Human-based - Hackers make a direct contact with their target victim by different means.
Ex :- Vhishing,Baiting,Tailgating.
2] Computer-based - Digital communication between the hacker and the victim.
Ex :- Spear phishing,Spyware.
3] Mobile-based - Use of mobile phones to gain the personal details.
Ex :- Smishing,Phishing.

Hands-on Phishing Attack using Kali SET :-
Step-1] Start The Social Engineering Toolkit from the tools of kali.
Now from a menu of exploits , select " Social-Engineering Attacks ".
We are using an phishing website , heence select the option for " Website Attack Vectors ".

Step-2] Now select the method of attack , in this case 
" Credential Harvester Attack Method "
then select " Web Templates "
and enter the ip of the local-host and then select the template of choice.

Step-3] Create an webpage with the ip of local-host hidden in url,
now , as soon as any user enters their login credentials(Username aand Password) in the field this data will now be available on the Social Engineering Toolkit in Kali.

We can also carry out the phishing attack by cloning an site as follows ,
Step-1] Start The Social Engineering Toolkit from the tools of kali.
Now from a menu of exploits , select " Social-Engineering Attacks ".
We are using an phishing website , heence select the option for " Website Attack Vectors ".

Step-2] Now select the method of attack , in this case 
" Credential Harvester Attack Method "
then select " Site Cloner " , 
this will create an exact copy of the site.
Then enter ip of local-host followed by the website to be cloned.

Step-3] When an webpage with the ip of local-host is created then ,
The webpage will display the contents of the webpage of which url we had copied earlier and when user enters the credential we can easily fetch them.

Detection and Prevention of Phishing Attacks :
-- Check for suspicious details or spelling mistakes in mails.
-- Check for sense of urgency in the mail as it prevents the user to think about the authentication of the mail.
-- Watch for mistakes or irregularities in the URL.
-- Watch for mismatched URLs.
-- Avoid opening unknown mails with attachments.
-- Check for https in Url if provided in an mail.
